Q:

Is it ok to ask questions on Stack Overflow to improve my coding skills?

I have some questions I want to ask to other (experienced) programmers on Stack Overflow.
The goal of those questions is gaining knowledge to become a better programmer.
I think it's a great idea to ask an experienced programmer I know to take a look at my code. But mostly experienced programmers don't have time for this. 
So can I ask such questions on Stack Overflow?

A:

So can I ask such questions on Stack Overflow?

No.
This is

opinion based 
not about a specific programming problem 
too broad

Regarding improvement of working code you may ask at Code Review, instead.
For questions about "creating, delivering, and maintaining software responsibly", you can ask them at Software Engineering Stack Exchange (previously named "Programmers Stack Exchange").

A:

Such questions are not strictly disallowed here (I think), they are asked and answered from time to time, if they ask about a very specific part of some code. When it's just a huge code dump, asking how to improve it, your question will quickly gather downvotes and close votes.
There is a site specifically created for this, however: Code Review Stack Exchange
Take a look at What topics can I ask about here? for details on the kind of questions you can ask on Code Review. Below is a summary, taken from that page:

I'm confused! What questions are on-topic for this site?
Simply ask yourself the following questions. To be on-topic the answer
  must be "yes" to all questions:

Is code included directly in my question? (See Make sure you include your code in your question below.)
Am I an owner or maintainer of the code?
Is it actual code from a project rather than pseudo-code or example code?
Do I want the code to be good code? (i.e. not code-golfing, obfuscation, or similar)
To the best of my knowledge, does the code work as intended?
Do I want feedback about any or all facets of the code?

If you answered "yes" to all the above questions, your question is
  on-topic for Code Review.

A:

Although you shouldn't just ask on Stack Overflow to have your code looked at, you can use Stack Overflow to improve your coding skills. I do it all the time, by answering questions (or just by trying to), about things that I don't quite know how to do but would like to. It's a great way to find out about language features, techniques and technologies you didn't know about. 
A surprising number of questions (or perhaps it's not at all surprising) can be answered with a bit of googling, persistence and experimentation. And if I get it wrong, a swift handful of downvotes will set me straight. :-)